EDITMYMP3 PROJECT GUIDE
=======================

1. PROJECT SUMMARY
------------------

EditMyMP3 is a static, mobile-friendly collection of browser-based audio tools.
It can trim MP3 files, change their volume or speed, add fades, normalize or
reverse audio, merge several MP3 files, and convert MP3 files to WAV.

Most processing happens locally in the user's browser. The source audio is not
sent to the application server. The optional AI feature sends only the user's
written instruction and the audio duration to a Cloudflare server endpoint. The
AI converts that instruction into editor settings; it does not process audio.

The application deliberately has no frontend framework, package manifest,
bundler, database, login system, or build step. It consists of HTML, CSS, and
plain JavaScript, plus one Cloudflare Pages Worker.


2. DIRECTORY AND FILE MAP
-------------------------

index.html
  Main landing page and full editor. It emphasizes the AI editor, but includes
  all manual editing controls and the merge tool.

app.js
  Shared application logic for the main page and the cutter, volume, speed, and
  merge SEO pages. It handles file selection, browser decoding, editing, MP3
  encoding, AI plans, merging, progress UI, previews, and downloads.

converter.js
  Logic used only by the MP3-to-WAV converter page. It decodes an MP3 and writes
  a standard 16-bit PCM WAV file.

style.css
  Shared styles for every page. It contains the color tokens, layout, cards,
  controls, editor, merge and converter components, responsive breakpoints,
  mobile navigation, and utility classes such as .hidden.

_worker.js
  Cloudflare Pages Worker. It implements POST /api/ai, generates robots.txt and
  sitemap.xml using the active deployment domain, redirects /mp3-to-wav to the
  converter page, and delegates all other requests to Cloudflare static assets.

mp3-cutter/index.html
  SEO landing page for trimming. It contains the full shared editor and sets
  body data-focus="cutter" so app.js highlights the trim controls after upload.

mp3-volume-booster/index.html
  SEO landing page for volume editing. It sets data-focus="volume".

audio-speed-changer/index.html
  SEO landing page for speed changes. It sets data-focus="speed".

merge-mp3/index.html
  SEO landing page that places the merge UI prominently and sets
  data-focus="merge". It also contains the shared single-file editor.

mp3-converter/index.html
  Smaller standalone MP3-to-WAV page. It uses converter.js, not app.js.

about.html, privacy.html, terms.html
  Informational and legal pages. privacy.html still contains a placeholder
  contact sentence that must be replaced before a public launch.

404.html
  Custom static not-found page.

manifest.webmanifest
  Basic installable-web-app metadata, colors, name, and standalone display mode.
  There is currently no service worker, offline cache, or application icon list.

robots.txt and sitemap.xml
  Static fallback versions. On Cloudflare, _worker.js responds dynamically at
  these paths so sitemap URLs use the real origin.

README.md and DEPLOY.txt
  Short deployment and launch notes.

.dev.vars
  Local Cloudflare Worker secrets, including GROQ_API_KEY. This file is ignored
  by Git and must never be committed or served as a public static asset.

.gitignore
  Excludes .dev.vars, environment files, and node_modules.


3. RUNTIME ARCHITECTURE
-----------------------

The application has two execution environments:

A. Browser
  - Displays the interface.
  - Reads local files selected by the user.
  - Decodes MP3 data into raw PCM samples.
  - Applies all audio transformations.
  - Encodes edited or merged samples as MP3.
  - Writes decoded samples as WAV for conversion.
  - Creates temporary blob URLs for preview and download.

B. Cloudflare Pages Worker
  - Serves the AI planning endpoint.
  - Keeps the Groq API key out of browser code.
  - Generates deployment-aware SEO files.
  - Serves the static site through the ASSETS binding.

There is no persistent server state. No audio, account, project, or edit plan is
stored by the application.


4. LIBRARIES AND PLATFORM APIs
------------------------------

External library: lamejs 1.2.1
  Loaded from cdnjs on all pages that use app.js:
  https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/lamejs/1.2.1/lame.min.js

  lamejs is a JavaScript implementation of the LAME MP3 encoder. The project
  uses lamejs.Mp3Encoder to generate constant 192 kbps MP3 output. It accepts
  mono or stereo signed 16-bit PCM blocks and returns encoded MP3 bytes.

  Consequence: editing is local, but MP3 export currently depends on cdnjs being
  reachable when the page loads. If the library fails to load, app.js reports an
  encoder-library error. Vendoring lame.min.js would remove this runtime network
  dependency and make the privacy/offline story stronger.

External service: Groq Chat Completions API
  Endpoint: https://api.groq.com/openai/v1/chat/completions
  Model: openai/gpt-oss-20b

  Groq is used only to translate plain-language commands into a structured edit
  plan. The request contains the instruction and duration, not the MP3 bytes.
  The response is constrained by a JSON schema in _worker.js.

Cloudflare Pages / Workers
  The site expects Cloudflare Pages' ASSETS binding and an encrypted environment
  variable named GROQ_API_KEY. Wrangler provides these capabilities locally.

Browser APIs used
  - File and FileList: receive user-selected local files.
  - File.arrayBuffer(): read file bytes into memory.
  - AudioContext / webkitAudioContext: decode MP3 into AudioBuffer data.
  - AudioBuffer.getChannelData(): access Float32 PCM channel samples.
  - Blob: package encoded MP3 bytes or generated WAV bytes.
  - URL.createObjectURL(): create local preview/download URLs.
  - URL.revokeObjectURL(): release old URLs and their retained memory.
  - HTMLAudioElement: play source and result audio.
  - Fetch API: call /api/ai and call Groq from the Worker.
  - Typed arrays and DataView: process samples and write binary formats.

CSS and fonts
  There is no CSS framework. style.css uses custom properties, CSS Grid,
  Flexbox, gradients, backdrop filters, media queries, and system fallbacks.
  The font stacks mention DM Sans and Manrope, but the pages do not import web
  font files; browsers normally fall back to installed/system sans-serif fonts.


5. SINGLE-FILE EDITING LOGIC
----------------------------

File selection
  app.js accepts files whose name ends in .mp3 or whose MIME type is audio/mpeg
  or audio/mp3. Selection works through the file input and drag-and-drop.

Decoding
  The selected file is read as an ArrayBuffer. A copy is passed to
  AudioContext.decodeAudioData because Safari may detach the supplied buffer.
  The resulting AudioBuffer contains sample rate, duration, channel count, and
  floating-point PCM data, normally in the range -1 to +1.

Trim
  Two range inputs represent the start and end time. The UI enforces a small
  positive gap. Export converts seconds into sample-frame indexes and copies only
  that subarray from every used channel.

Speed
  Supported presets are 0.5, 0.75, 1, 1.25, 1.5, and 2 times normal speed.
  app.js performs linear resampling: output sample i is interpolated between the
  neighboring source samples around i * speed. Faster settings produce fewer
  samples; slower settings produce more samples.

  This simple algorithm changes pitch together with speed. It is not a
  pitch-preserving time-stretch algorithm, and linear interpolation is lower
  quality than a production resampler.

Volume
  Each sample is multiplied by volumeRange / 100. The UI supports 25% through
  200% in 5% steps. Values above 100% can clip when the result is converted to
  signed 16-bit samples unless normalization or sufficient headroom prevents it.

Normalization
  app.js scans every output channel for the largest absolute sample. If the peak
  is nonzero, it calculates a gain that brings that peak to 0.98. The user volume
  multiplier and normalization multiplier are applied together. This is peak
  normalization, not perceived-loudness/LUFS normalization.

Fade in and fade out
  Fade durations can be 0, 1, 2, 3, or 5 seconds. A linear gain ramp is applied
  at the beginning and/or end. Frame counts are adjusted for the selected speed.

Reverse
  After gains and fades are applied, each channel's sample array is reversed.
  Because reversal happens after fade calculation, the already-shaped audio is
  reversed too; conceptually, the audible fade positions swap when reversed.

Channels
  Mono remains mono. The first two channels of stereo/multichannel audio become
  the output channels. Extra channels are softly mixed alternately into left and
  right. This is a simple downmix and does not use a formal surround matrix.

MP3 encoding
  Float32 samples are clamped to -1 through +1 and converted to signed Int16.
  lamejs encodes blocks of 1,152 frames at 192 kbps. The final encoder buffer is
  flushed, all byte chunks are placed in an audio/mpeg Blob, and an object URL is
  assigned to the result player and download link.

Export filename
  A source named example.mp3 downloads as example-edited.mp3.


6. MERGE LOGIC
--------------

The merge tool requires at least two files. Every accepted MP3 is decoded into
an AudioBuffer when added. Files are kept in the mergeItems array with their
original File object and decoded buffer.

The interface can move items up or down, remove items, show total duration, and
reject an apparent duplicate based on name, size, and lastModified.

Before concatenation, app.js selects a common target rate near the first file's
sample rate: 48,000, 44,100, 32,000, 24,000, or 22,050 Hz. Every channel is
linearly resampled to that rate. Mono is copied to both stereo channels, stereo
uses its first two channels, and additional channels are softly downmixed.

Two large Float32Array objects are allocated for the combined left and right
channels. Each file is copied into them in the displayed order, with no silence
or crossfade between files. The combined arrays are sent to the same 192 kbps
lamejs encoder used by the editor. The output name is merged-mp3.mp3.


7. MP3-TO-WAV CONVERTER LOGIC
-----------------------------

converter.js independently validates and decodes one MP3. It creates a binary
WAV file with:
  - RIFF container
  - WAVE format
  - PCM format code 1
  - one or two channels (additional input channels are omitted)
  - original decoded sample rate
  - 16 bits per sample
  - interleaved little-endian signed PCM samples

It manually writes the 44-byte RIFF/WAV header with DataView, then writes each
frame and channel. The resulting Blob has type audio/wav. No third-party library
is needed for WAV output. The downloaded name retains the source base name and
changes the extension to .wav.

WAV is uncompressed, so the generated file can be much larger than its MP3.


8. AI EDIT-PLANNING LOGIC
-------------------------

Frontend flow
  1. A user loads one MP3 and enters an instruction of up to 500 characters.
  2. app.js sends POST /api/ai with JSON containing command and duration.
  3. It reads the returned plan and sanitizes every value.
  4. The UI displays a summary of trim, volume, speed, fade, normalization, and
     reverse settings.
  5. Applying the plan copies those settings into the manual controls.
  6. Normal browser audio processing performs the actual edit.

Worker validation
  _worker.js accepts POST only. It verifies that a Groq key exists, parses JSON,
  requires a nonempty command no longer than 500 characters, and accepts audio
  durations greater than zero and no longer than 86,400 seconds.

Prompt behavior
  The system prompt lists the supported operations and conservative mappings for
  phrases such as "slightly louder" or "remove the last 10 seconds." It instructs
  the model to reject unsupported work such as transcription, noise removal,
  voice isolation, EQ, pitch shifting, content-aware cutting, and merging inside
  the single-file editor.

Structured response
  The response schema requires can_apply, summary, message, trim bounds, volume,
  speed, both fades, normalize, and reverse. Speed is expressed as a number from
  0.5 through 2 because Groq rejects a numeric enum containing both fractional
  and whole-number JSON values. The browser subsequently accepts only the six
  supported speed presets and falls back to 1x for any other value.

Client-side sanitization
  app.js clamps trim times to the real duration, resets an invalid trim range,
  rounds volume to a 5% step between 25% and 200%, restricts speed and fades to
  known choices, coerces flags to booleans, and supplies safe text/defaults.

Error handling
  The Worker returns descriptive JSON errors for invalid requests, missing
  configuration, rejected API keys, provider rate limits, network failures,
  empty model output, and invalid model JSON. The frontend displays these errors
  without attempting to apply a plan.

Security/operations note
  /api/ai has input limits but no user authentication, CAPTCHA, durable rate
  limiting, or per-IP quota. A publicly deployed site can therefore consume the
  configured Groq allowance if automated clients call the endpoint repeatedly.
  Cloudflare rate-limiting/WAF rules should be considered before significant
  public traffic.


9. PAGE AND SEO STRATEGY
------------------------

The main editor and four focused MP3 pages intentionally duplicate most editor
markup. Each focused page supplies a distinct title, meta description, canonical
path, Open Graph data, JSON-LD WebApplication data, headline, explanatory copy,
and active navigation state. This targets search intent while delivering a real
usable tool at every URL.

body[data-focus] tells app.js what to emphasize after an upload:
  ai        main editor behavior
  cutter    reveal manual mode and focus the trim card
  volume    reveal manual mode and focus the volume card
  speed     reveal manual mode and focus the speed card
  merge     leave the merge-focused layout alone
  converter converter page uses its own script

Because the editor markup is duplicated, any control, accessibility, or layout
change must normally be copied to index.html and all four shared-editor pages.
Failure to keep IDs and markup aligned can cause app.js event binding errors.

The Worker-generated sitemap includes all tool pages plus About, Privacy, and
Terms. The Worker-generated robots file links to the sitemap on the live origin.
/mp3-to-wav and /mp3-to-wav/ permanently redirect to /mp3-converter/.


10. LOCAL DEVELOPMENT
---------------------

Requirements
  - A modern browser
  - Node.js and npm/npx
  - Internet access for first-time Wrangler download, lamejs CDN loading, and
    Groq AI calls
  - A valid GROQ_API_KEY in .dev.vars for AI testing

From the project root, run:

  npx wrangler pages dev .

Open the localhost URL Wrangler prints, normally http://localhost:8788.
Wrangler is important because it executes _worker.js and exposes /api/ai. A basic
static file server can display the site and run local audio tools, but AI calls
will fail because no Worker route exists.

Static-only alternative:

  python -m http.server 8000

Then open http://localhost:8000. Do not use this mode to test AI integration.

There is no npm install, npm build, or compiled output directory in the current
project. There are also no automated unit, integration, or browser tests.


11. CLOUDFLARE DEPLOYMENT
-------------------------

Deploy all files and directories, including _worker.js, to a Cloudflare Pages
project. In Workers & Pages project settings, add GROQ_API_KEY as an encrypted
secret and redeploy.

After deployment, verify:
  - GET /api/ai returns a 405 JSON method error.
  - A real AI edit instruction succeeds through POST /api/ai.
  - /sitemap.xml contains the real pages.dev or custom domain.
  - /robots.txt points to that sitemap.
  - /mp3-to-wav redirects to /mp3-converter/.
  - Every tool works on iPhone Safari and Android Chrome.
  - MP3 encoding loads successfully from cdnjs.

Before launch, replace the Privacy contact placeholder, adapt legal text to the
actual business and jurisdiction, disclose any analytics/advertising/cookies,
verify the site in Google Search Console, and submit /sitemap.xml.


12. PRIVACY AND DATA MOVEMENT
-----------------------------

Normal edit, merge, and conversion operations use browser memory only. Object
URLs refer to in-memory/local Blob data and are not uploads. The application does
not intentionally transmit source audio.

Using AI sends two pieces of information through Cloudflare to Groq:
  - the user's written edit instruction
  - the decoded audio duration

The current application has no analytics code. If analytics, advertising, error
monitoring, or additional CDNs are added, the privacy page and consent behavior
must be updated accordingly.


13. LIMITATIONS AND TECHNICAL RISKS
----------------------------------

Memory and performance
  AudioBuffer data is fully decoded in memory. Editing creates additional sample
  arrays, Int16 arrays, encoded chunks, and a result Blob. Merging can hold every
  decoded source plus combined channels at once. Long or high-rate files may be
  slow, freeze a mobile tab, or exhaust memory.

Main-thread processing
  Resampling, effects, WAV writing, concatenation, and MP3 encoding run on the UI
  thread. Short timeout yields let the browser paint progress states, but heavy
  loops can still make the page temporarily unresponsive. Web Workers would be a
  substantial improvement for long files.

Audio quality
  Every edited or merged MP3 is decoded and lossy-encoded again at 192 kbps.
  Linear resampling can introduce artifacts, speed changes alter pitch, peak
  normalization is not loudness normalization, and gain above full scale clips
  during Int16 conversion.

Format support
  Input is intentionally limited to MP3 by filename/MIME checks, although actual
  decoding ultimately depends on the browser. Output editing is MP3 only and the
  converter output is PCM WAV only.

Metadata
  ID3 tags, cover art, chapters, and other MP3 metadata are not copied into newly
  encoded files.

Network dependencies
  AI requires Cloudflare, Groq, a valid key, and available quota. MP3 export
  requires the cdnjs-hosted lamejs script. WAV conversion itself has no external
  runtime library dependency.

Code duplication
  Shared editor HTML is repeated across five pages rather than generated from a
  template. Maintenance must account for every copy.

Testing
  No automated tests currently protect audio math, WAV headers, AI validation,
  cross-browser behavior, accessibility, or duplicated page consistency.


14. SAFE MAINTENANCE CHECKLIST
------------------------------

When changing editor controls:
  - Update every shared-editor HTML page.
  - Preserve IDs expected by app.js.
  - Update the AI schema, prompt, sanitizer, plan renderer, control application,
    and audio processing together when adding an AI-controllable operation.

When changing audio code:
  - Test mono, stereo, and unusual sample rates.
  - Test very short clips and fades longer than the clip.
  - Test output in Chrome, Firefox, desktop Safari, and iPhone Safari.
  - Watch browser memory with several large merge inputs.
  - Verify object URLs are revoked when results are replaced.

When changing AI behavior:
  - Keep GROQ_API_KEY server-side only.
  - Keep request length and duration validation.
  - Ensure the Groq response schema is accepted by the selected model/provider.
  - Treat model output as untrusted and retain client-side sanitization.
  - Test missing key, invalid key, rate limit, malformed request, and provider
    outage behavior.

When changing deployment:
  - Preserve the Worker ASSETS fallback.
  - Ensure secret files are excluded from uploads and Git.
  - Recheck generated sitemap origins and redirects.
  - Update privacy/legal disclosures for every new third-party service.


15. CURRENT DESIGN PHILOSOPHY
-----------------------------

The project favors a small deployment surface, immediate use without accounts,
local-first audio handling, mobile-friendly controls, and search-specific pages.
Its central distinction is that AI is a constrained settings planner rather than
an opaque audio-processing backend. This keeps source files on the device and
makes every proposed AI edit visible and adjustable before export.

